Add documentation on Row-Level Security MTA-5093 (#3760)
scaleway/docs-content: serverless/sql-databases/api-cli/postgrest-row-level-security.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to use Row Level Security with PostgREST for Serverless SQL Databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: How to use Row-Level Security with PostgREST for Serverless SQL Databases
```

>   description: This page provides the steps to use Row Level Security with PostGREST for Serverless SQL Databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page provides the steps to use Row-Level Security with PostGREST for Serverless SQL Databases
```

content:

>   h1: How to use Row Level Security with PostgREST for Serverless SQL Databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: How to use Row-Level Security with PostgREST for Serverless SQL Databases
```

>   paragraph: This page provides the steps to use Row Level Security with PostGREST for Serverless SQL Databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page provides the steps to use Row-Level Security with PostGREST for Serverless SQL Databases
```

tags: sql-databases serverless database row-level-security postgresql postgrest
dates:
  validation: 2024-09-24
  posted: 2024-09-24
categories:
  - serverless
---

> - A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
```

- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created a Serverless SQL Database](/serverless/sql-databases/how-to/create-a-database/)

> - [Created two applications](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-application/) in IAM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Created two IAM applications](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-application/)
```

## Use Row Level Security with PostgREST

> PostgREST built-in Row Level Security based on users JWT relies either on [role impersonation](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/auth.html#user-impersonation) or [transaction-scoped settings](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/transactions.html#tx-settings). Due to connection pooling, Serverless SQL Database currently only support transaction-scoped settings and requires using a single PostgreSQL role for all queries (the internal `role_readwrite` in PostgreSQL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgREST built-in Row Level Security based on users JWT relies either on [role impersonation](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/auth.html#user-impersonation) or [transaction-scoped settings](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/transactions.html#tx-settings). Due to connection pooling, Serverless SQL Database currently only supports transaction-scoped settings and requires using a single PostgreSQL role for all queries (the internal `role_readwrite` in PostgreSQL).
```

> PostgREST built-in Row Level Security based on users JWT relies either on [role impersonation](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/auth.html#user-impersonation) or [transaction-scoped settings](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/transactions.html#tx-settings). Due to connection pooling, Serverless SQL Database currently only support transaction-scoped settings and requires using a single PostgreSQL role for all queries (the internal `role_readwrite` in PostgreSQL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgREST built-in Row-Level Security based on users JWT relies either on [role impersonation](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/auth.html#user-impersonation) or [transaction-scoped settings](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/references/transactions.html#tx-settings). Due to connection pooling, Serverless SQL Database currently only support transaction-scoped settings and requires using a single PostgreSQL role for all queries (the internal `role_readwrite` in PostgreSQL).
```

> 1. [Install PostgREST](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/tutorials/tut0.html#step-1-install-postgresql)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Install PostgREST](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/tutorials/tut0.html#step-1-install-postgresql).
```

2. Create a `tutorial.conf` file with the following content:
    ```
    db-uri = "postgres://[user-or-application-id]:[api-secret-key]@[database-hostname]:5432/[database-name]?sslmode=require"
    db-schemas = "[your database schema]"
    jwt-secret = "[your jwt secret]"
    ```
    where:

>     - `db-uri` should use credentials with an application having **ServerlessSQLDatabaseDataReadWrite** permissions (and not **ServerlessSQLDatabaseDataReadWrite** neither **ServerlessSQLDatabaseFullAccess**)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `db-uri` should use credentials with an application having **ServerlessSQLDatabaseDataReadWrite** permissions (and not **ServerlessSQLDatabaseDataReadWrite** or **ServerlessSQLDatabaseFullAccess**)
```

    - `db-schemas` is your database schema. You can use `"public"` as a default value. 
    - `jwt-secret` can be generated using the command `openssl rand -base64 32`

3. Run PostgREST:
    ```bash
    postgrest tutorial.conf 
    ```

>     You can check that your are able to query your database by [generating a JWT](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/tutorials/tut1.html#step-3-sign-a-token) with the payload data `{"role": "role_readwrite"}`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can check that you are able to query your database by [generating a JWT](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v12/tutorials/tut1.html#step-3-sign-a-token) with the payload data `{"role": "role_readwrite"}`:
```

    ```bash
     curl http://localhost:3000/pets \
        -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
    ```
    where `$TOKEN` is your generated JWT.
    A pet list should display.

4. Connect to your Serverless SQL Database with **ServerlessSQLDatabaseFullAccess** permissions, and delete the existing policy on the `pets` table:
    ```sql
    DROP POLICY pets_keeper ON pets;
    ```

5. Create a new policy on the `pets` table:
    ```sql
    CREATE POLICY pets_keeper ON pets TO role_readwrite 
    USING (keeper = current_setting('request.jwt.claims', true)::json->>'user_type');
    ```

>     This policy will use `current_settings` instead on `current_user` and thus check for additional fields contained by the JWT instead of only the `"role"` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This policy will use `current_settings` instead of `current_user` and thus check for additional fields contained by the JWT instead of only the `"role"` field.
```

6. Generate a JWT with the following payload data:
    ```json
    {
        "role": "role_readwrite",
        "user_type": "role_readwrite"
    }
    ```
    <Message type="tip">

>     In this configuration, `user_type` value from JWT will be checked against `keeper` column value in your database to authorize access. You can replace `"user_type": "role_readwrite"` by any alternative field name or value depending on your use case. However you need to keep `"role": "role_readwrite"` for any kind of users you want to authenticate through PostgREST, because alternative roles (such as `role_admin`) will already have too much privileges and be able to see any data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this configuration, the `user_type` value from JWT will be checked against the `keeper` column value in your database to authorize access. You can replace `"user_type": "role_readwrite"` with any alternative field name or value depending on your use case. However, you must keep `"role": "role_readwrite"` for any users you want to authenticate through PostgREST because alternative roles (such as `role_admin`) will already have too many privileges and be able to see any data.
```
